AIMLCZG546 - Software Engineering for Machine Learning  
Assignment I 
 
Overview 
This assignment assesses your ability to apply software engineering principles to a machine 
learning application — from problem formulation and requirements engineering through to 
system architecture and implementation. You will work in groups to select a real-world ML 
application domain, model it using GR4ML notation, and design and implement a working 
system architecture. 
General Instructions 
• It is a Group Assignment. Please follow the naming convention as <Group no>.ipynb.  
• Inside each report and implementation notebooks, you are required to mention your 
name, Group details. 
Group Details 
Group No: <Fill Group No> 
Group Member Names with Contribution 
Sl. No BITS ID Name Contribution of 
team member 
(Qualitative) 
Percentage 
Contribution (Out 
of 100) 
Quantitative 
1     
2     
3     
4     
  
• Weightage - 10 marks 
• Assignment 1 Submission Date – 30th June 2026, 23:00. 
• Submissions after the due date will result in deduction of marks. 
 
Note 
1. No extension of deadline will be given under any circumstances. Manage your time and 
complete the assignment within the deadline. 
2. Since Assignment-I is part of EC-1 component, there is NO MAKEUP for this component. 
3. Any questions or clarifications regarding the assignment can be emailed to 
"omshree.b@wilp.bits-pilani.ac.in". 

Project Details 
Objective 1: Requirements Formulation [5 Marks] 
1. Select a domain and define an appropriate problem statement for an ML -based 
application of your choice. 
2. Formulate the requirement specifications and establish measurable goals for the 
proposed ML-based application using GR4ML concepts. 
3. Using GR4ML notations, develop the following views for the application: 
• Business View 
• Analytics Design View 
• Data Preparation View 
4. Identify the top three quality requirements for the application and provide justification 
for their selection. 
 
Objective 2: System Architecture [5 Marks] 
5. Draw a system architecture diagram for the selected application, clearly illustrating 
both ML and non -ML components. You may use any suitable tool of your choice to 
create the diagram. 
6. Select and apply any two relevant architectural patterns suitable for the application. 
7. Implement the selected architectural patterns using appropriate technologies and tools 
of your choice. 
 
Submission Guidelines  
Prepare a Word/ PDF document containing the project details (screenshots of the application 
are required, along with explanation) and code. Highlight clearly the contribution of each group 
member in executing the assignment. Upload the file as <groupid.docx> or <groupid.pdf> into 
the Taxila portal.  
 
 
All the Best! 
 
 